IBM(International Business Machines) is an American multinational information technology company headquartered in Armonk, New York, United States, with operations in over 170 countries.

IBM(International Business Machines) manufactures and markets computer hardware, middleware and software, and provides hosting and consulting services in areas ranging from mainframe computers to nanotechnology. IBM(International Business Machines) is also a major research organization, holding the record for most patents generated by a business (as of 2018) for 25 consecutive years. Inventions by IBM(International Business Machines) include the automated teller machine, the floppy disk, the hard disk drive, the magnetic stripe card, the relational database, the SQL(Structured Query Language) programming language, the UPC(Universal Product Code) barcode, and dynamic random-access memory. The IBM(International Business Machines) mainframe, exemplified by the System/360, was the dominant computing platform during the 1960s and 1970s.

IBM(International Business Machines) has continually shifted its business mix by commoditizing markets focusing on higher-value, more profitable markets. This includes spinning off printer manufacturer Lexmark in 1991 and selling off its personal computer (ThinkPad/ThinkCentre) and x86-based server businesses to Lenovo (2005 and 2014, respectively), and acquiring companies such as pwc Consulting (2002), spss (2009), and The Weather Company (2016). Also in 2014, IBM(International Business Machines) announced that it would go "fabless", continuing to design semiconductors, but offloading manufacturing to GlobalFoundries.

Nicknamed Big Blue, IBM(International Business Machines) is one of 30 companies included in the Dow Jones Industrial Average and one of the world's largest employers, with (as of 2017) over 380,000 employees. Known as "IBM(International Business Machines)ers", IBM(International Business Machines) employees have been awarded five Nobel Prizes, six Turing Awards, ten National Medals of Technology and five National Medals of Science.
